---
tags : [drl-class-notes]
title : "DRL - Class 2 - Multi Armed Bandit"
category : DRL-classes
subcategory : MAB
---


### Today's conversations - 5/2/26 
### MAB - multi arm bandit - K armed bandit problem

#### Evaluative Approach 
The most important feature distinguishing RL from other types of learning is that it uses training information to evaluate policies (Actions) instead of instructing (supervised learning) what is the correct action. This creates the need for active exploration and explicit search for an specific objective. Purely evaluative feedback indicates how good the action taken was but not whether it was the best and worst action. Note V(s) was stochastic distribution. And a high value of V(s) at any state is basically giving an average value indicator of how good is that state. but it does not give us a way to find the best and worst value V*. Same is the case with Q(s,a) and Q*(s,a).

#### K-armed Bandit Problem or Multi Armed Bandit Problem 
It is a non-associative, evaluative feedback problem. You are faced repeatedly with a choice **among k different options (Actions)**. After each choice you receive a numerical reward chosen from a **stationary probability distribution** that depends on the action that you selected. your objective is to maximize total expected reward over **some time period**, for example over 1000 action selections, or time steps. Through repeated action selections you are to maximize your winnings by concentrating your actions on the best levers. 

#### $q_*(a,s)$ vs $Q(a,s)$ 
Each of the k-actions has an expected or mean reward given that that action is selected; this is called **value** of the action - **$q_*(a)$**. This is the true value of the action, which is unknown to the agent.  
$$\mathbb{E}[R_t | A_t = a] = q_*(a)$$
The agent estimates the value of each action based on the rewards received when that action was selected. This estimate is denoted as **$Q_t(a)$**, which is the estimated value of action a at time t. The agent updates this estimate based on the rewards received after selecting action a.

#### Greedy actions / exploitation / exploration
If you maintain the **estimates of the action values $Q(s,a)$**, then at any time step, there is at-least one action whose estimated value is greatest. We call that **greedy action**. If you select one of these actions, we say that you are **exploiting your current knowledge of the values of the actions**.
if instead you select one of the non-greedy actions, then we say you are **exploring**, because this enables you to improve your estimate of the non greedy action's value. 
**Exploitation** is the right thing to do to maximize the expected reward on the one step. But **Exploration** may produce the greater total reward in the long run. If you have many time steps ahead on which to make action selections, then it may be better to explore the non greedy actions and discover which of them are better than the greedy actions. Exploitation and Exploration need to be balanced. 

#### Action Value Methods